                   Using BIND zone files in MaraDNS

   MaraDNS has some BIND zone file support. This means it is
   possible to use BIND zone files in MaraDNS. This makes it easier
   for people to use MaraDNS in mixed DNS server environments.

   Instead of having direct BIND zone file support, MaraDNS has a
   script, called bind2csv2.py, that converts BIND zone files in to
   the "csv2" zone file format that MaraDNS uses.

   bind2csv2.py is a Python script, written in version 2.2.3 of the
   Python interpreter. The script should be compatible with more
   recent versions of Python. The script assumes Python is the file
   /usr/bin/python on your system; if Python is located elsewhere
   on your system, please change the first line of bind2csv2.py.
   Naturally, you will need the Python interpreter installed on
   your system to use bind2csv2.py. This is a well-known open
   source language supported by most modern Linux and BSD
   distributions.

   To use the script, enter a directory containing BIND zone files,
   and invoke the script thusly:

 bind2csv2.py -c zone1 zone2 zone3

   Substitute "zone1", "zone2", and "zone3" with a list of one or
   more BIND zone files you wish be converted in to MaraDNS csv2
   zone files.

   Once the script is run, you should have files with names like
   "zone1.csv2", "zone2.csv2", and "zone3.csv2". These files are
   csv2 zone files that MaraDNS will be able to parse. Copy these
   csv2 zone files to a place where MaraDNS can find the zone
   files.

   Should there already be a "zone1.csv2" file when bind2csv2.py is
   run, the "zone1.csv2" file will be replaced.

BUGS

   bind2csv2.py is not a perfect zone file converter. In
   particular, bind2csv2.py does not act like BIND when NS records
   have different TTLs. Please make sure all NS records in your
   BIND zone files have the same TTL.

   In addition, bind2csv2.py also does not support all resource
   record types that BIND supports. Only the following RRs are
   supported by bind2csv2.py: A AAAA AFSDB CNAME GPOS HINFO ISDN
   LOC MB MD MF MG MINFO MR MX NS NSAP PTR PX RP RT SOA SPF SRV TXT
   WKS X25
