                           DNS record types

   This is a list of some DNS record types which MaraDNS supports.

   A
           A, or address, records describe the IP that a given DNS
           node has.

           MaraDNS optionally uses the 'A' to signify an A record.
           This has one data-dependent field: The ip for the node
           in question, in dotted decimal (e.g. 192.168.42.55)
           format.

   MX
           MX, or mail exchange, records describe the machines to
           contact in order to send mail to a given DNS node.

           This has two data-dependent fields: The preference for
           the mail exchanger (lower preferences get higher
           priority), and the name of the DNS node to deliver mail
           to.

   NS
           A NS record tells name servers which machines are in
           charge of a given domain zone.

           This has one data-dependent field: The name of the DNS
           node which a given NS record points to.

           Any given zone must have one or more NS records. If no
           NS records are present in a zone, MaraDNS will
           synthesize NS records for the zone in question. If one
           wishes to set up their own NS records, all of the NS
           records for a given DNS zone need to be placed
           immediately after the SOA record.

           MaraDNS also supports delegation NS records, which name
           the DNS servers for a sub-zone, which usually is on
           another DNS server. DNS allows for people to delegate
           sub-zones in DNS. Just as the "." server delegates any
           name that ends in ".com." to another set of name
           servers, and the ".com." name servers, in turn, delegate
           any names that ends in "example.com.", such as
           "www.example.com.", to the "example.com." name servers,
           the "example.com." name servers may further delegate
           sub-zones.

           For example, if example.com wishes to sub-delegate
           "john.example.com." to John who works at Example, inc.,
           lines like this can be added to the example.com zone
           file:

 john.example.com. NS ns1.john.example.com.
 john.example.com. NS ns2.john.example.com.
 # It's important to provide "glue"; in other words, let the world know
 # the IPs for these name servers.
 ns1.john.example.com. 10.9.8.7
 ns2.john.example.com. 10.5.77.65

           John, who is running is own nameservers with the IPs
           10.9.8.7 and 10.5.77.65 then has a zone file for
           john.example.com. that looks something like this:

 # It is best if the NS records for a subzone agree with the delegation
 # records above
 john.example.com. NS ns1.john.example.com.
 john.example.com. NS ns2.john.example.com.

 ns1.john.example.com. 10.9.8.7
 ns2.john.example.com. 10.5.77.65

 # Now that that is out of the way, here is the rest of the zone
 john.example.com. 10.9.8.7
 www.john.example.com. 10.5.77.65
 john.example.com. MX 10 mail.john.example.com.
 mail.john.example.com. 10.9.8.7

   SOA
           This is a record used when using DNS to synchronize data
           between multiple computers. Details on how this record
           works is in the DNS master document.

           A given zone must have precisely one SOA record. If a
           SOA record is not present in a zone file, MaraDNS will
           synthesize a SOA record. If the record is in a zone
           file, it must be the first line of the zone file. Any
           other use of a SOA record will result in MaraDNS
           returning an error.

   TXT
           TXT, or text, records are arbitrary text strings which
           can be attached to given DNS nodes. Certain protocols,
           such as SPF, use this field to store protocol-specific
           data.

           This has one data-dependent field: The text string in
           question.

   Note that this document does not describe every single record
   type that MaraDNS support. Please refer to the CSV2 manual
   page for a more complete reference.
